Now 40 image upload will use Firebase storage and obviously that's just one alternative and I'll just
show a dummy a demo implementation of this.
If you really want to build an app with file upload you might want to use your firebase SDK if you want
to use Firebase or any average service and that services SDK or documentation to learn how to efficiently
upload files or image has to get storage.
Here I will build my own REST API and points that accepts an image file and then returns us to you or
l to where it's stored.
So do you see a very generic way of uploading this but this is just a demo.
I'm not using you firebase SDK here because then you would only know how to do it with the firebase
SDK.
I want you to understand what happens under the hood though they have 4 will use that custom REST API
endpoint nonetheless if you are planning to use Firebase for your project for your real project look
into view firebase SDK where you can use the built in uploading functionalities which are easier and
all the more performance at better.
Or if you're using an average service check that services documentation.
Now for that custom API endpoint I'm talking about we'll use a feature called Cloud functions here and
to create such a function which essentially allows us to create our own code that will run when we send
the request to a certain end point.
We will use the firebase based tools.
You can google for firebase tools to find that github repository here and there you see that for using
the tools you have to run this installation command which will install them globally on your machine.
So let's do that.
Now on Mac and Linux you now might need to add a pseudo in front of this and be prompted to enter your
password thereafter and this will now install the firebase tools globally on your machine.
Now we use the firebase tools you're only to create that cloud function which in turn allows us to add
code that executes when we send the image to a certain custom Rest Api endpoint.
As I said Does this just a demo here.
So with that installed Well we can run here as firebase in it.
In this project in this ionic project here you should choose functions and only functions simply navigate
their impress space.
You shouldn't check storage or anything like that.
Thereafter hit enter and there choose your project here which is ironic.
Course for me.
So far this project you all use for your database choose javascript here.
And for a listing ask no to a wide unnecessary errors or changes you need to make and you can choose
yes for the dependencies to install them and what this will do is it will now give you a brand new functions
folder with an index J.S. file and its own dependencies set and in this index J is all you can write
your own cloud functions.
Now I'll not give you an introduction to Firebase cloud functions here because here we'll just use it
as a tool to reach our goal.
If you want to learn more about that check the official cloud function documentation and attach to this
video you'll also find helpful video an article I created on that.
Now the cloud function which I want to add here is a cloud function you find attached so you can just
copy and paste that in you can replace everything in a file with that attached code no dead code is
almost ready to use but you need to tweak some things there everywhere you where you see this project
idea here.
You need to plug in yours.
Now what is your project idea.
You can find that and you firebase console here if you go to Settings project settings this is your
project idea here.
So grab that I.D. and replace all occurrences of ionic complete prep here with your project I.D. You
will all that we'll need to install a couple of dependencies which we need for that go to package start
Jason and add in the dependencies you'll find in a separate file attached to this video with these words
here
thereafter go into your terminal and navigate into that function's folder in your ionic project and
rerun npm install and this will now install all these dependencies and thereafter dysfunction should
be ready to deploy.
So now you can run.
You can go back to your main project folder if you want to.
You can run firebase deploy and this will now build your function and upload it to your firebase project.
Now once this is deployed you can see your function the far firebase web console if you go to functions
and there you also see that rest api endpoint to which you can send the request later.
Now let's work on the uploading logic in our front end here.